Now that we had a look at the basics of routing it next and how we use folders and files to do that
routing.
Let's see how we would create roud with that dynamic path.
So where we can enter an idea and get access to that entered route parameter in our view.
So to say.
So let's say we want to create a dynamic route for users so that we can enter slash users slash and
then the dynamic parameter like the User ID.
You can do this in two ways.
Again you can create a file or a folder in both approaches.
The name matters a lot.
Let's start with a file.
If I create a new file here the name has to start with an underscore.
This signals to you that this is now not a hard coded u r l but some dynamic segment in the URL.
And then you enter any name by which you later want to extract dynamic segment the dynamic parameter
entered by a user like ID.
And then it's still a dop you follow.
So still a component a page which will be loaded.
So I'll add a template here and there are output a single user.
Now with that approach where we can do is we can save this and go back reload yet and then enter slash
1 for example after slash users.
And there's loads a single user.
Now the same is the case if we enter slash anything here because then again does anything part is simply
treat that as the dynamic parameter because we created this underscore Id fall in users.
Now we can also access the data entered by the user so we can for example output a single user with
ID and then let's say we want to output that dynamic parameter that we can use the normal view features
because it's just a component.
So we can enter interpellation here with these double Colie braces.
Now between this we can now access that roud parameter.
The question is how.
And here is one important thing you got to know next.
Yes looks different but uses the view router behind the scenes.
It simply creates the routing configuration for you and passes it to view router.
Since this is the case we can use all the default view router features.
For example in components which we have here in the end we can access dollar sign route which is injected
and provided by Buga us so not by next but by Future asked by the router and which gives us information
about the currently loaded route.
And for example there's a dollar sign route object has a parents property that property in turn is an
object where we can access all the dynamic segments that are relevant to this loaded route.
In our case the IDs segment.
So that is where we can enter ID here.
And if you would have named the file underscore user then you would x' dot user here.
But we named it ID.
So this is ID here with that if we save this you see with ID anything as output because I'm on slash
anything and if I enter one then with ID one is output.
This is how this works is how we can use dynamic parameters in our next routing setup.
And as before.
There's only one of the two possible approaches we could have also created a nested folder with underscore
ideas a name but without view at the end because it's a folder and then we could move that file into
the folder and now rename it to index again.
This is really important.
This now has to be indexed view.
And with that we get exactly the same set up as before just with a folder based approach.
Now if a reload the page it still works and if I go to slash anything does all still works.
The main advantage here again might be that it's easier to think of that as a folder structure.
Since we all kind of have a folder structure and you are ill but ultimately this is up to you.
However there's one important difference if you have a folder based approach with the folder named underscore
ID then this is mandatory.
And if you will nest something here like you nest more dash details to you then you could enter slash
users slash some ID slash more details and you would have to enter that ID if you create a file named
underscore ID that you then any aberant neighboring files can be loaded without the ID being prepared
and of course because you didn't create a nested structure as in this case.
So if you plan on adding more sap routes so to say then you have to take that folder based approach.
If that's not your plan you can use the file based one.
However as you see you always can use the folder based one.
And I personally can recommend this because it makes this project a bit easier to manage.
In my experience.